@subheading asn1_length_der
@anchor{asn1_length_der}
@deftypefun {void} {asn1_length_der} (unsigned long int @var{len}, unsigned char * @var{der}, int * @var{der_len})
@var{len}: value to convert.

@var{der}: buffer to hold the returned encoding (may be @code{NULL} ).

@var{der_len}: number of meaningful bytes of ANS (der[0]..der[der_len-1]).

Creates the DER encoding of the provided length value.
The  @code{der} buffer must have enough room for the output. The maximum
length this function will encode is @code{ASN1_MAX_LENGTH_SIZE} .

To know the size of the DER encoding use a @code{NULL}  value for  @code{der} .
@end deftypefun

@subheading asn1_octet_der
@anchor{asn1_octet_der}
@deftypefun {void} {asn1_octet_der} (const unsigned char * @var{str}, int @var{str_len}, unsigned char * @var{der}, int * @var{der_len})
@var{str}: the input data.

@var{str_len}: STR length (str[0]..str[*str_len-1]).

@var{der}: encoded string returned.

@var{der_len}: number of meaningful bytes of DER (der[0]..der[der_len-1]).

Creates a length-value DER encoding for the input data.
The DER encoding of the input data will be placed in the  @code{der} variable.

Note that the OCTET STRING tag is not included in the output.

This function does not return any value because it is expected
that  @code{der_len} will contain enough bytes to store the string
plus the DER encoding. The DER encoding size can be obtained using
@code{asn1_length_der()} .
@end deftypefun

@subheading asn1_encode_simple_der
@anchor{asn1_encode_simple_der}
@deftypefun {int} {asn1_encode_simple_der} (unsigned int @var{etype}, const unsigned char * @var{str}, unsigned int @var{str_len}, unsigned char * @var{tl}, unsigned int * @var{tl_len})
@var{etype}: The type of the string to be encoded (ASN1_ETYPE_)

@var{str}: the string data.

@var{str_len}: the string length

@var{tl}: the encoded tag and length

@var{tl_len}: the bytes of the  @code{tl} field

Creates the DER encoding for various simple ASN.1 types like strings etc.
It stores the tag and length in  @code{tl} , which should have space for at least
@code{ASN1_MAX_TL_SIZE}  bytes. Initially  @code{tl_len} should contain the size of  @code{tl} .

The complete DER encoding should consist of the value in  @code{tl} appended
with the provided  @code{str} .

@strong{Returns:} @code{ASN1_SUCCESS}  if successful or an error value.
@end deftypefun

@subheading asn1_bit_der
@anchor{asn1_bit_der}
@deftypefun {void} {asn1_bit_der} (const unsigned char * @var{str}, int @var{bit_len}, unsigned char * @var{der}, int * @var{der_len})
@var{str}: BIT string.

@var{bit_len}: number of meaningful bits in STR.

@var{der}: string returned.

@var{der_len}: number of meaningful bytes of DER
(der[0]..der[ans_len-1]).

Creates a length-value DER encoding for the input data
as it would have been for a BIT STRING.
The DER encoded data will be copied in  @code{der} .

Note that the BIT STRING tag is not included in the output.

This function does not return any value because it is expected
that  @code{der_len} will contain enough bytes to store the string
plus the DER encoding. The DER encoding size can be obtained using
@code{asn1_length_der()} .
@end deftypefun

@subheading asn1_der_coding
@anchor{asn1_der_coding}
@deftypefun {int} {asn1_der_coding} (asn1_node @var{element}, const char * @var{name}, void * @var{ider}, int * @var{len}, char * @var{ErrorDescription})
@var{element}: pointer to an ASN1 element

@var{name}: the name of the structure you want to encode (it must be
inside *POINTER).

@var{ider}: vector that will contain the DER encoding. DER must be a
pointer to memory cells already allocated.

@var{len}: number of bytes of * @code{ider} :  @code{ider} [0].. @code{ider} [len-1], Initialy
holds the sizeof of der vector.

@var{ErrorDescription}: return the error description or an empty
string if success.

Creates the DER encoding for the NAME structure (inside *POINTER
structure).

@strong{Returns:} @code{ASN1_SUCCESS}  if DER encoding OK, @code{ASN1_ELEMENT_NOT_FOUND} 
if  @code{name} is not a valid element, @code{ASN1_VALUE_NOT_FOUND}  if there
is an element without a value, @code{ASN1_MEM_ERROR}  if the  @code{ider} vector isn't big enough and in this case  @code{len} will contain the
length needed.
@end deftypefun

